# Particle-Filter--CompPhy
Implementation of a Particle Filter

This repository consists of 3 types of simulations that we have created, a 1-D particle filter, 2-D particle filter, and a simulation on gazebo.

The first simulation is a one dimensional simulation of the particle filter, in this simulation we assume the robot(or anything) is moving only in the one dimension (x-axis). The landmarks (or reference points) are placed at different locations on the x-axis and the control inputs move the robot to different locations. The contrl inputs, the size of the world, the number of particles, the sensor and motion noise standard deviation can all be changed in the PF file. The sensor model takes the distance to the nearest landmark.

In the 'particle filter with gazebo' we are implementing the particle filter in a simulated environment using 'gazebo'. Gazebo helps us set up a simulated environment where we can run a simulated robot in this simulated world. We moved the our robot in this environment using keyboard inputs, and collected the movement data and sensor data ( laser scan, this is performed by Gazebo and we have to just collect the data). From the house map in Gazebo, we created a map (which consists of data points indicating the places where the map is occupied) which can be used for implementing the particle filter. The transmission and receiving of data is done using ROS (robot operating system), this software allows us to communicate information between various programs. So, we are essentially receiving data from Gazebo about the laser scan which are the distances from the robot to anything present on the map, and the data about how far we have moved. This data is taken in our particle filter algorithm. Using 'rviz', a tool in ROS which helps us to visulaize the particles and the map, we can see what is going on.

